README.md, before:

Minecart
========

**A minecart running through unloaded areas for Minetest v5.0+**


Browse on: ![GitHub](https://github.com/joe7575/minecart)

Download: ![GitHub](https://github.com/joe7575/minecart/archive/master.zip)

![minecart](https://github.com/joe7575/minecart/blob/master/screenshot.png)


Minecart is based on carts, which is
based almost entirely on the mod boost_cart [1], which
itself is based on (and fully compatible with) the carts mod [2].

The model was originally designed by stujones11 [3] (CC-0).

Cart textures are based on original work from PixelBOX by Gambit (permissive
license).


1. https://github.com/SmallJoker/boost_cart/
2. https://github.com/PilzAdam/carts/
3. https://github.com/stujones11/railcart/


Original Features
-----------------
- A fast cart for your railway or roller coaster (up to 7 m/s!)
- Boost and brake rails
- Rail junction switching with the 'right-left' walking keys
- Handbrake with the 'back' key

New Features
------------
- Minecart has its own cart in addition to the standard cart.
- The Minecart can "run" through unloaded areas. This is done by 
  means of recorded and stored routes. If the area is unloaded
  the cart will simply follow the predefined route until an
  area is loaded again. In this case the cart will be spawned and
  run as usual.
- The Minecart is protected and can't be removed by foreign players.
- Protection Landmarks to protect the rails
- To store a route, a player has to place Railway Buffers on both ends,
  and use the Minecart to drive the route in both directions.
- The digging of protected Minecarts and rails is only possible as an owner 
  or with 'minecart' privs.

Use Case
--------
The main use of the Minecart is for item transport from mines to warehouses,
ideally by means of an automation mod like Signs Bot.
https://github.com/joe7575/signs_bot

Introduction
------------

1. Place your rails and build a route with two ends. Junctions are allowed as 
   long as each route has its own start and end point.
2. Place a Railway Buffer at both ends.
3. Protect your rails with the Protection Landmarks (one Landmark at least every 16 blocks)
4. Drive the route in both directions (route recording), starting at the Railway Buffers.
5. Now you can drop items into the Minecart and punch the cart to get started.
6. To get the items back you have to dig the cart (as usual).

History
-------

2019-04-19  v0.01  first commit  
2019-04-21  v0.02  functional, with junctions support  
2019-04-23  v0.03  bug fixes and improvements  
2019-04-25  v0.04  Landmarks and Minecart protection added  
2019-05-04  v0.05  Route recording protection added

Commit message:

v0.06  Pick up items from a cart improved

README.md, after:

Minecart
========

**A minecart running through unloaded areas for Minetest v5.0+**


Browse on: ![GitHub](https://github.com/joe7575/minecart)

Download: ![GitHub](https://github.com/joe7575/minecart/archive/master.zip)

![minecart](https://github.com/joe7575/minecart/blob/master/screenshot.png)


Minecart is based on carts, which is
based almost entirely on the mod boost_cart [1], which
itself is based on (and fully compatible with) the carts mod [2].

The model was originally designed by stujones11 [3] (CC-0).

Cart textures are based on original work from PixelBOX by Gambit (permissive
license).


1. https://github.com/SmallJoker/boost_cart/
2. https://github.com/PilzAdam/carts/
3. https://github.com/stujones11/railcart/


Original Features
-----------------
- A fast cart for your railway or roller coaster (up to 7 m/s!)
- Boost and brake rails
- Rail junction switching with the 'right-left' walking keys
- Handbrake with the 'back' key

New Features
------------
- Minecart has its own cart in addition to the standard cart.
- The Minecart can "run" through unloaded areas. This is done by 
  means of recorded and stored routes. If the area is unloaded
  the cart will simply follow the predefined route until an
  area is loaded again. In this case the cart will be spawned and
  run as usual.
- The Minecart is protected and can't be removed by foreign players.
- The mod adds Protection Landmarks to protect the rails
- To store a route, a player has to place Railway Buffers on both ends,
  and use the Minecart to drive the route in both directions.
- The digging of protected Minecarts and rails is only possible as an owner 
  or with 'minecart' privs.

Use Case
--------
The main use of the Minecart is for item transport from mines to warehouses,
ideally by means of an automation mod like Signs Bot.
https://github.com/joe7575/signs_bot

Introduction
------------

1. Place your rails and build a route with two ends. Junctions are allowed as 
   long as each route has its own start and end point.
2. Place a Railway Buffer at both ends.
3. Protect your rails with the Protection Landmarks (one Landmark at least every 16 blocks)
4. Drive the route in both directions (route recording), starting at the Railway Buffers.
5. Now you can drop items into the Minecart and punch the cart to get started.
6. Sneak+click the cart to get the items back
7. Dig the empty cart with a second sneak+Click (as usual).

History
-------

2019-04-19  v0.01  first commit  
2019-04-21  v0.02  functional, with junctions support  
2019-04-23  v0.03  bug fixes and improvements  
2019-04-25  v0.04  Landmarks and Minecart protection added  
2019-05-04  v0.05  Route recording protection added  
2019-05-22  v0.06  Pick up items from a cart improved
